readme.md, before:

Welcome to EasyBuild!
================

**EasyBuild** provides a collection of third-party open-source libraries and softwares in computational mechanics. It aims at easing the complex configuring, building and installing processes of these computational packages, and thus helping researchers to get a quick start. 

### 1. To install a package

 0. Prerequisites: gcc, autoconf, automake, cmake, mpi, boost.

    ```
    # For MacOS: use brew install, such as
    brew install gcc autoconf automake cmake mpi boost
        
    # For Ubuntu: use apt-get install, such as
    sudo apt install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install -y autoconf-archive automake cmake texinfo
    sudo apt-get install openmpi-bin libopenmpi-dev libboost-all-dev
    ```

 1. Configure, build and install:

    ```
    make [package]
    ```

### 2. To add a new package to the project

1. Create the submodule using:

    ```    
    git submodule add --depth 1 [package_source_url] contrib/[package]/src
    ```

2. Insert an entry of the package in file *makefile*, following the format of existing packages.

3. Insert an entry of the package in file *install.sh*. Two modifications will be needed.

    ```
    PACKAGE=${PACKAGE:-OFF}         
    ```
    ```
    -DBUILD_PACKAGE=${PACKAGE}     
    ```

4. Modify *CMakeLists.txt* by adding configuring options for the package.

    ```
    option(USE_INTERNAL_[PACKAGE] "use internal [package]" ON)
    option(BUILD_[PACKAGE] "build [package]" OFF)
    if(BUILD_[PACKAGE])
      include(cmake/include/[package].cmake)

      if(USE_INTERNAL_[PACKAGE])
        add_dependencies(${PROJECT_NAME} [PACKAGE])
      endif()
    endif()
    ```

5. Create file *[package].cmake* inside *cmake/include*, and implement the configure, build and installation procedures. (one can make a copy of the cmake file of existing packages and make modifications on that). This step is the most complex one, and one should refer to the installation procedure of a specific package.

6. Add a description of the package in *readme.md*.

Note: a dependency of the existing packages can be a standalone package as well. One can make them exiplicit by following the aformentioned procedures. 

### 3. Support

Supported packages are added based on needs. If you need packages that are not on the list, or would like to contribute by adding them, please [open an issue](https://github.com/net-dem/easy_build/issues) or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/net-dem/easy_build/pulls).

### 4. Supported packages

[deal.II](https://github.com/dealii/dealii): a C++ program library targeted at the computational solution of partial differential equations using adaptive finite elements. 

[liggghts](https://github.com/CFDEMproject/LIGGGHTS-PUBLIC.git): an open source discrete element method particle simulation software that is improved from LAMMPS for general granular and granular heat transfer simulations. This project used a modified [version](https://github.com/schrummy14/LIGGGHTS_Flexible_Fibers.git) that includes granular bond formulations. 

[netdem](https://github.com/net-dem/netdem.git): a neural network machine learning enabled DEM framework for computational particle mechanics. [to be open-source soon]

[openfoam](https://github.com/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-dev): a free, open source computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software package released by the OpenFOAM Foundation.

[peridigm](https://github.com/peridigm/peridigm.git): an open-source computational peridynamics code developed, originally at Sandia National Laboratories and open-sourced in 2011, for massively-parallel multi-physics simulations.

Commit message:

add description about the installation

readme.md, after:

Welcome to EasyBuild!
================

**EasyBuild** provides a collection of third-party open-source libraries and softwares in computational mechanics. It aims at easing the complex configuring, building and installing processes of these computational packages, and thus helping researchers to get a quick start. 

### 1. To install a package

0. Prerequisites: gcc, autoconf, automake, cmake, mpi, boost.

    ```
    # For MacOS: use brew install, such as
    brew install gcc autoconf automake cmake mpi boost
        
    # For Ubuntu: use apt-get install, such as
    sudo apt install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install -y autoconf-archive automake cmake texinfo
    sudo apt-get install openmpi-bin libopenmpi-dev libboost-all-dev
    ```

1. Configure, build and install:

    ```
    make [package]
    ```

2. The installation can be found in ``contrib/[package]/install``. For some packages without installation step, the binaries might be founed in ``contrib/[package]/build``.

### 2. To add a new package to the project

1. Create the submodule using:

    ```    
    git submodule add --depth 1 [package_source_url] contrib/[package]/src
    ```

2. Insert an entry of the package in file *makefile*, following the format of existing packages.

3. Insert an entry of the package in file *install.sh*. Two modifications will be needed.

    ```
    PACKAGE=${PACKAGE:-OFF}         
    ```
    ```
    -DBUILD_PACKAGE=${PACKAGE}     
    ```

4. Modify *CMakeLists.txt* by adding configuring options for the package.

    ```
    option(USE_INTERNAL_[PACKAGE] "use internal [package]" ON)
    option(BUILD_[PACKAGE] "build [package]" OFF)
    if(BUILD_[PACKAGE])
      include(cmake/include/[package].cmake)

      if(USE_INTERNAL_[PACKAGE])
        add_dependencies(${PROJECT_NAME} [PACKAGE])
      endif()
    endif()
    ```

5. Create file *[package].cmake* inside *cmake/include*, and implement the configure, build and installation procedures. (one can make a copy of the cmake file of existing packages and make modifications on that). This step is the most complex one, and one should refer to the installation procedure of a specific package.

6. Add a description of the package in *readme.md*.

Note: a dependency of the existing packages can be a standalone package as well. One can make them exiplicit by following the aformentioned procedures. 

### 3. Support

Supported packages are added based on needs. If you need packages that are not on the list, or would like to contribute by adding them, please [open an issue](https://github.com/net-dem/easy_build/issues) or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/net-dem/easy_build/pulls).

### 4. Supported packages

[deal.II](https://github.com/dealii/dealii): a C++ program library targeted at the computational solution of partial differential equations using adaptive finite elements. 

[liggghts](https://github.com/CFDEMproject/LIGGGHTS-PUBLIC.git): an open source discrete element method particle simulation software that is improved from LAMMPS for general granular and granular heat transfer simulations. This project used a modified [version](https://github.com/schrummy14/LIGGGHTS_Flexible_Fibers.git) that includes granular bond formulations. 

[netdem](https://github.com/net-dem/netdem.git): a neural network machine learning enabled DEM framework for computational particle mechanics. [to be open-source soon]

[openfoam](https://github.com/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-dev): a free, open source computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software package released by the OpenFOAM Foundation.

[peridigm](https://github.com/peridigm/peridigm.git): an open-source computational peridynamics code developed, originally at Sandia National Laboratories and open-sourced in 2011, for massively-parallel multi-physics simulations.
